hey guys for those of you who do not
know the status of my legal case in
Thailand this video will be an update or
a summary of what's going on in the
legal case in Thailand um there isn't
any dramatic or interesting fast
breaking news and as I've had to warn
people repeatedly the reality of the
situation we're in is that a group of
professional liars are trying to make
money by creating a dramatic situation
out of what's really a pretty slow and
dull bureaucratic process the exciting
aspect is ethical and that's what you've
heard me preach about so many times
before I'm not in it to win it
I'm actually not playing the win I'm
doing this because it's the right thing
to do okay
there was a question I was threatened
with violence I was threatened with
defamation at least once I heard during
writer talk about having me killed
he talked much more extensively about
having me beaten up dragged to a police
station thrown in prison beaten up on
the streets you guys have all seen those
allegations probably or if not if this
is your first video on the topic maybe
this is first time you've heard of it
there were serious threats of violence
very serious defamation and what's
written on the Internet is written in
pen not in pencil in many ways I think
that defamation will be on the internet
forever at that juncture the question is
what are you gonna do what was I gonna
do
I was signed up to start a job in China
I was in Shanghai very briefly getting
paperwork done so that I could start
that job as a matter of fact um
durianrider is not a one-time offender
to the best of my knowledge he's someone
who was repeatedly made threats of
violence against others he's someone
who's repeatedly made false defamatory
and damning allegations against others
he's someone who from my perspective and
in my opinion has had a pervasively
negative influence on the discourse
within the fledgling vegan movement
so what could I do what should I do
I decided to ask people for donations so
that I could employ a lawyer to press my
case against Durant Ryder in a very real
sense I'm not doing it for myself or not
doing it for myself alone idea to stand
up for myself but I was also standing up
for all the other people whom he'd made
threats against whom he'd carried out
intimidation against who used
intimidation tactics against all the
other people whom he had defamed in the
past and potentially I was doing this to
deter him from using threats violence
and defamation against others in the
future I've actually never seen a
complete list of all the people he's
defamed in the past I've heard many many
examples I've read in some cases I've
seen on YouTube or in writing you know
on blog type formats I've seen many many
examples of the people he's defame in
the past I both I don't know how many
people that were in total in the past
and I also don't know how many more
people could be impact in the future but
that's one of the reasons why I stood up
and launched this legal case I've said
before and I'll say again everyone is
innocent till proven guilty and on some
level I would even feel happy for during
Ryder if he was found not guilty I've
had videos reflecting on my own mixed
feelings about that there was really a
sense in which I would not feel happy to
see him put into a prison cell it's just
not the kind of person I am
I wouldn't feel good to see him put in a
prison cell
I just anyway different strokes for
different folks but I also do not feel
good to see my name dragged through the
mud I do not feel good to see a long
list of other people's names dragged
through the mud I do not feel good to
see the name and concept of veganism
itself dragged through the mud so those
are the stakes were playing for that was
the context for me making the decision
to have a fundraiser to collect that
money and go to court now those facts in
are hard to understand as I say the
aspect that you
dramatic is the moral and ethical
challenge and it's not just a challenge
to during lighter it's a challenge to
all of us in many ways I've been asking
my fellow members of the digital vegan
demi-monde that digital activists the
aspiring advocates for ecology animal
rights and cultural change towards
achieving a vegan society I've been
asking can't we do better does the
problem isn't just durianrider
I think in many ways durianrider set a
very bad precedent but many many people
now are engaged in the same kind of
defamation tactics I don't know anyone
to be honest to you who engaged in the
same threats of violence I don't maybe
there are some I don't I don't know of
them but one of the reasons why this had
a kind of dramatic galvanizing effect in
the whole scene was they think a lot of
us had to ask ourselves couldn't we do
better and unfortunately what I've seen
is in many cases people doing worse and
worse the real outcomes to say they've
been mixed might be flattering the
situation and many many people now are
making up stories that are false and in
many cases the people telling those
stories know them to be false about what
has happened with the legal case and
what is happening with the legal case
and partly that has to do with represent
misrepresenting lying about what I've
said myself on this channel and many of
these people have admitted to me they
never even watched the videos on my
channel so their only source of
information is durianrider or some other
very biased party they're not even
hearing the version of events of my
channel so to give one really brief
example at an early stage there were
many people emailing me saying that I
can't possibly win the case because and
then they would list some facts about
Australian law or they would even list
facts about Canadian law I'm a Canadian
citizen having you with jurisdiction at
the nature of the the case what have you
and about all I would say in reply is I
think you should watch again and listen
more carefully to the videos I've
already made on this topic
none of the videos said that I had a
legal case in Canada nor in Australia
and eventually once the paperwork was
done and lawyers were paid and the
charges were in motion
I then started talking to us directly
about the fact that this is a legal case
in Thailand would not have taken a
genius to figure that out there were
many many signs actually from the start
that the cases in Thailand cluding
that's where the jurisdiction was both
he and I were in Thailand when those
events happened it's a completely tacky
it completely falls under title audit a
URIs diction and also even the amount of
money I asked for in the fundraiser it's
true it's not enough to have a
defamation case or even I think um you
know case related threats of violence
under American law or under Australian
law it's enough under Thai law so
actually there already was enough out
there for a smart person and I did a
couple lawyers wrote to me and said huh
I listened to your video carefully okay
I see what's going on
so people who actually listened to what
I said had blend set of expectations and
people who listen to what durianrider
said had another so you know I just was
talking to someone who said to me um
that they didn't believe my case was
real because because I said allegedly I
said I didn't say that I said during
Ryder was already arrested and he wasn't
I did not say that now think about the
meaning of the word arrested what I have
already said in other update videos
which is true was that the money finally
arrived I got the money to the lawyer I
paid the lawyer the lawyer started the
paperwork process and then the paperwork
went through several subsequent stages
hearings again I'm using the English
term hearings exactly what the Thai
legal term is I don't know but I'm
saying a hearing is not a trial so my
lawyer talking to a judge and presenting
the paperwork that's not a trial all
right during writer has not been
convicted and in the Thai system and
really this process has taught me to
appreciate some of the strengths some of
the advantages of the Thai system I go
through a pretty thorough process of
proving that I have a case of proving
that these charges matter that I have
evidence to back them up before anyone
has their freedom taken away from them
but part of that process is not
durianrider being arrested
it's durianrider being informed that
there are charges against him so that he
has the opportunity to prepare a defense
that normally involves hiring a defense
attorney now I just had someone say to
me now someone in my live chat here say
as a matter of fact
well durianrider was never contacted by
the authorities who told you that
they're in right many of these people
are constructing stories and often very
falsely saying that they consider both
sides that they give equal time to both
versions of stories and they haven't
even listened to the videos already
publicly available on my YouTube channel
they have not listened to the videos
that state what the background of the
case was or what's currently going on
from my perspective so they haven't
heard both sides and they also haven't
emailed me or asked me or talked to me
or anything and again my side of the
story does have legal documents to back
it up the legal documents are written in
the Thai language
and now the whole Thai legal process not
even easy for me to understand its I
understand that it's daunting for people
but many people have come on camera and
made statements about how they think the
legal process works based on watching
American movies those American movies
may not even represent the American
legal process fairly or accurately but
they have nothing to do with the Thai
legal process and again if I show you
government paperwork from Thailand it's
written and Thai as Thai stamps and
insignia and this kind of formal stuff
you can take it and talk to a Thai
lawyer you can talk to just someone
who's fluent in Thai language to ask
them to interpret it for you you can sit
down with Google Translate
nobody has ever suggested to me that
that paperwork that I've presented is
fake it would I would have to really
building linguistic genius to fake it
but also why why would I fake it
why would I have fake paperwork from a
fake legal case when my story is
completely coherent and consistent
and that is that I have a real legal
case in Thailand um I'm gonna pause now
to philosophize a little bit
I'm fills you if you just wanted that
summary of what's going on with the
legal case I did more paperwork today
today I signed more legal paperwork for
my lawyer it's completely banal like if
I told you what's in the paperwork it's
not interesting it's just yet more
paperwork pursuing the case but the case
has been real and ongoing so for those
of you who wanted to hear that you can
stop watching this video now I have some
more
you know reflections on this to
philosophize a little bit about the life
of the mind here on YouTube the game
were all playing or the game were all
trapped in I think was really kicked off
was really invented by guys like the
amazing atheist the amazing atheist the
last time I mentioned him talking
another youtuber I think was actually
when I was talking to the tofu goddess
we were talking at one point we did like
a three-hour podcast together I think
was like three and a half hours join
patreon dia to hear it all but you know
at one point in that podcast I remember
we were talking about the shallowness of
people caring about who's beautiful and
he was not on YouTube and this kind of
thing and I said well look don't forget
a lot of the guys who've been the most
successful and he really created the
game that we were all inheriting that
we've all stepped into on YouTube
created the expectations for what it
meant to be to be a youtube personality
I were hideously ugly I mean the amazing
atheist he's never claimed to be
handsome he I think he's still very
overweight but he started off as the
proverbial you know overweight loser
living in his parents basement and
making videos in his in his parent's
garage and now I am NOT saying that as
an insulting I'm pointing out that right
from the start he faced hatred for that
reason for being fat for being ugly for
not having a real job for not having an
education as I recall I think he dropped
out of high school and then after that
in terms of his career
and I looked into this at the time when
I was just starting up my youtube
channel and when I was considering
whether or not I would start a YouTube
channel TJ that it's his name or his
nickname his first initials are TJ TJ
the amazing atheist not only is he at
legal trouble not only has he had at sex
scandals he had nude photos nude video
of him get onto the Internet at one
point the amazing atheist one of his
viewers um who had court who had
communicated with him he would send him
email and he had replied in videos we
dad I think videos back and forth with I
think they they'd had some kind of
debate one of his viewers we had this
kind of relationship with murdered a
bunch of people and then shot himself in
the head and then TJ had to sit there
and make statements to the press and
give interviews about an extreme you
know emotional and legal situations I
guess that's the most extreme situation
you can imagine being in as he took
personality and he's gone through one
thing after another
um examples like that people who really
were the the path breakers the first
people to come onto this medium and do
it I think in many ways they taught us
they taught me people like me who came
later what to expect whether you look at
the amazing atheist or any see on or any
of the guys who came on to YouTube early
and then you see the kind of endless
mean-spirited scrutiny they face
sometimes including legal problems you
know sadly I guess you know what to
expect
but that doesn't mean I'm not entitled
to be disappointed with you with my
fellow vegans I have every right to be
disappointed because what we're doing
here is not comedy
an essay on is a comedy channel the
amazing atheist is a mix of comedy and
joking about the news basically it's a
comedy channel what we're doing here
it's not a joke
whether it's sharing our lives or trying
to connect and collaborate for this
greater cause saving the animals saving
the planet promoting veganism as a diet
as a lifestyle as a political movement
there's supposed to be an ethical basis
to why we're here and I think the vast
majority of my viewers they don't listen
to me because I'm funny they don't
listen to me because I'm charming I mean
maybe they tune in more often once they
get used to my sense of humor I do have
some joking around some videos but like
90% of you who are here because on some
level you care about the cause and that
makes what we're doing right now
different different from the amazing
atheist different from Annie see on
different from one of my fellow vegans
community channel Natalie Tran
she's been on YouTube for more than 10
years made a career out of it very
successful and I think now she's been
vegan for less than one year but shout
out to natalie tran fellow vegan with
multi-million viewers
very successful youtuber it's not a joke
I don't want this to become a joke and
you know
I keep opening the door to these people
terrible despicable people I'm just
being honest with you I'm talking about
specific individuals here although I'm
gonna name them you know again and again
there are these people and they've said
bad things the pastor death bad things
in the past and then they make a couple
of good videos it looks like they're on
an upward trajectory they're improving
and I opened the door to them and say
look you know send an email and say do
you want to talk do you want to talk on
a podcast you want it can we somehow
communicate or collaborate because
ultimately I'm not talking about
collaborating on a video I'm talking
about collaborating on veganism I'm
talking about the future of veganism
talking about leaving a positive legacy
for the future of planet Earth and yes
ultimately for my own daughter you know
what I mean so yeah I mean what we're
doing here is different from you know
Vlad TV making videos about drama within
the rap world within hip-hop music or
video game channels talking about how
the different video game personalities
hate each other or the comic books or
the comedy I'm not even talking about a
higher aspiration in terms of
accomplishing something great I think
there's a higher minimum standard in
terms of what we all should be living up
to you know the maximum standard we
don't even talk about at the minimum
standard if you're gonna come on camera
and tell lies about me saying that I'm
guilty of criminal misconduct you're not
even gonna hear my side of the story
you're not gonna look at the legal
documents
you're gonna tell lies about me that
there were criminal charges against me
that don't exist that it never existed
what I've seen is people imitating and
reproducing the worst aspects of
durianrider as part and parcel of this
same process that was me
calling everyone to stand up and you
know sure if you stand up for me that's
nice that's sweet I appreciate it some
people did stand up for me
I think vegan gains he partly stood up
because he felt he knew me he felt he
could trust me sure okay standing up for
me that's one thing but ultimately my
core case it's about doing the right
thing and it's about asking all of you
to stand up for veganism to stand up
against violence and defamation to
resolve that we can do better that we
can be better and yes that involves
doing better in our speech in our
actions but I think it also means
meeting a higher minimum standard in
listening in listening to one another if
you're gonna take this video as another
opportunity to defame me and attack me
and claim that I'm a scam artist that
I'm that I'm committing terrible crimes
all kinds of criminal allegations I've
been told not I'm gonna name them have
you heard my side of the story
have you listened have you ever reached
out to me because I've I've reached out
to so many people hundreds and hundreds
of people and not to plead my case
ultimately it's to plead the case of the
animals of the cows and the pigs that
are voiceless it's to plead the case for
veganism for ecology for all those
reasons it's to plead the case that we
can get organized and make a pause the
difference in the world
part of that is listening and I hope
that some of you will respond to this
video by reconsidering not just your own
deeds not just maybe your own engagement
in slander and defamation but also your
own capacity to listen
it's your fellow vegans to your fellow
human beings because what I'm seeing
right now it's not just failure to
listen to two sides of the story I don't
see people even listen to one side of
the story I see people who are so easy
you so eager to engage in defamation so
eager to say this is my chance to prove
how morally superior superior I am this
is my chance to snub someone to
denigrate someone to put someone to that
even though you're doing it in the name
of your own moral superiority actually
step by step this is a downward spiral
that's dragging down the whole moral
tone of this project that we got
involved in not just when I started this
legal case in Thailand but when we got
started each of us coming on YouTube and
said hi my name is blank and I'm a vegan
and this is what veganism means to me
this is why I care so much about it that
I'm giving up my privacy to come on
YouTube and show my support for this
cause